[Music]
i'm Father Mark Mary with Franciscan
Friars the Renewal and this is the
rosary in a year podcast where through
prayer and meditation The rosary brings
us deeper into relationship with Jesus
and Mary and becomes a source of grace
for the whole world The rosary in a year
is brought to you by Ascension This is
day 104 To download the prayer plan for
rosary in a year visit
ascensionpress.com/rosary in a year or
text riy to 33777
You'll get an outline of how we're going
to pray each month and it's a great way
to track your progress The best place to
listen to the podcast is in the
Ascension app There are special features
built just for this podcast and also
recordings of the full rosary On behalf
of myself and the whole team here at
Ascension we wanted to take this
opportunity to thank everyone who's
helped support this podcast financially
Your support is so appreciated and helps
us to reach as many people as possible
And if you haven't already please
consider supporting us
atress.com/support
Today we will be meditating upon and
praying with the first glorious mystery
the
resurrection with help from an Easter
homaly by St John
Chrysstm the emphasis of our prayer
meditation is going to be death where is
your
sting some brief background on St John
Chrysm He was born in the year 347 and
he died in the year
407 His name Christrist is an honorific
Greek title which means golden mouth in
illusion to his great writings and
preaching St John as a young man he
lived a very aesthetical life as a monk
While there he ended up picking up a
stomach ailment which would really kind
of keep him sick and somewhat fragile
for the rest of his life Eventually he
would kind of leave the more separate
monastic desert spirituality and he
would come to the city particularly
Antioch where he'd serve as a priest and
eventually become a bishop He would
continue to live a very very strict life
personal life And he'd hold a very high
standard of both simplicity and
generosity especially towards the poor
but also he would speak extremely
tenderly about the mercy of
God In response to the life he lived and
the way it pricricked the consciences of
those in leadership and his preaching
especially on what was owed to the poor
he ended up being sent into exile by the
empress
St John Christristam is a doctor of the
church Again he has the honorific title
of Christ meaning golden mouth And I've
also seen him referred to as the doctor
of the
eukarist So now let's read our Easter
homaly from St John
Christ Now begins our reading Come all
and enter into the joy of your
Lord First and last receive your reward
Rich and poor dance together The
industrious and the sluggish tend to
this day Those fasting and those not
fasting be joyful today The table is set
and rich with food Enjoy the banquet The
calf is fatted and of plenty Let no one
go away
hungry All of you together enjoy the
banquet of faith All of you indulge in
the riches of his goodness Let no one
lament his poverty For the universal
kingdom has been revealed Let no one
mourn his sins for forgiveness has shone
from the grave Let no one be terrified
of death for the death of our savior has
liberated us He destroyed death by
enduring it He has desoiled hell by
descending into it He angered hell by
allowing it to taste his flesh Where O
death is your sting oh hell where is
your victory Christ is risen and the
demons are destroyed Christ is risen and
the angels rejoiced Christ is risen and
life is restored Christ is risen and no
dead person remains in the tomb For
Christ in rising from the dead became
the firstborn of the dead To him be
glory and power forever and ever
Amen The end of the reading Thanks be to
God I love this reading You get why he's
called golden mouse in John Chrysm here
What is he saying Okay let's go ahead
and take kind of a look at it Let's sit
with it The resurrection of Jesus it
puts all things in their right place
Like that which is passing or temporary
is shown to be passing That which is
eternal is revealed as ever enduring
Notice the words of St John Christ right
He goes through a series regarding like
these different dispositions or
attitudes First last rich poor
industrious sluggish fasting not fasting
those in poverty those mourning their
sins And what's he saying All of these
are
temporary All of these are
passing before the resurrection of Jesus
Christ All are called to glory to joy to
fullness to confidence to forgiveness to
life The human
condition with its various levels and
experiences its successes and
failures is passing
But
joy
forgiveness fullness life in Jesus
Christ these are all
everlasting St John Christ he continues
by looking at the sting of death or the
perceived victory of
hell Before the resurrection Satan had
this thought that he'd be victorious
that hell would swallow us up
But then Jesus wins salvation Jesus is
victorious over the grave Jesus is
victorious over hell And he opens to us
all the gates of
heaven And death has lost its
sting and its illusion of
permanence And so what does this mean
for us I'd say there's two-fold
application
First of all the invitation to keep
temporary things as temporary and
eternal things as eternal Like our
current successes our current status our
current financial situation for the
positive or the
negative they're all
passing Like we just don't place our
hope in these things whether they be
great or poor they're going to pass away
And so the wealthy the accomplished the
successful etc like they shouldn't boast
in their accomplishment in their
successes in their
wealth But likewise like the poor
shouldn't lament in their poverty or
their lack of successes their lack of
popularity whatever it is Why Because
both of those are temporary Both of
those are
passing And secondly we are all offered
a hope before death
We have Jesus before the death of
Lazarus still like lamenting still
mourning And so there is still before
death and perhaps even before our own
death a certain sense of
sadness but it is not a sadness towards
despair
The fear of death while it might be felt
in some human sense is a real fear like
needs also to be in contact with the
ultimate hope of the resurrection that
we are a people of hope and we believe
that this life is temporary We believe
that death is temporary but the hope of
eternal life offered to us in Christ is
eternal And same with those we have lost
There's going to be some many ways in
which we do mourn their
absence But the hope of Jesus Christ is
a deep hope a profound hope which speaks
into these situations and say like your
separation is temporary
What Christ risen from the dead offers
to us is the hope the authentic
Christian hope of eternal communion and
union with God eternal reunion with all
those who are
saved Wealth
poverty death
health these are all
passing What is eternal is the victory
of Jesus Christ What is eternal is our
hope of salvation and life forever with
God And this is what is offered to
us by Christ's victory over the
grave As we pray let's go ahead and sort
of apply these words to our situations
If we're feeling a little bit too
confident a little bit too
boastworthy in our
successes may the resurrection of Jesus
Christ humble us remind us that these
are temporary If we're feeling certain
sadness or discouragement about some
failures or some lack of
successes may the resurrection of Jesus
Christ offer us hope and fullness And
for those of us who are who are mourning
the loss of loved
ones may the resurrection of Jesus
Christ come and tenderly touch those
wounds and offer to us the healing
eternal
hope that comes from the resurrection of
Jesus Christ And now with Mary let us
pray In the name of the Father and of
the Son and of the Holy Spirit
Amen Our Father who art in heaven
hallowed be thy name Thy kingdom come
thy will be done on earth as it is in
heaven Give us this day our daily bread
and forgive us our trespasses as we
forgive those who trespass against us
and lead us not into temptation but
deliver us from evil Amen Hail Mary full
of grace the Lord is with thee Blessed
art thou among women and blessed is the
fruit of thy womb Jesus Holy Mary mother
of God pray for us sinners now and at
the hour of our death
Amen Hail Mary full of grace the Lord is
with thee Blessed art thou among women
and blessed is the fruit of thy womb
Jesus Holy Mary mother of God pray for
us sinners now and at the hour of our
death Amen
Hail Mary full of grace the Lord is with
thee Blessed art thou among women and
blessed is the fruit of thy womb Jesus
Holy Mary mother of God pray for us
sinners now and at the hour of our death
Amen Hail Mary full of grace the Lord is
with thee Blessed art thou among women
and blessed is the fruit of thy womb
Jesus Holy Mary mother of God pray for
us sinners now and at the hour of our
death Amen Hail Mary full of grace the
Lord is with thee Blessed art thou among
women and blessed is the fruit of thy
womb Jesus Holy Mary mother of God pray
for us sinners now and at the hour of
our death Amen Hail Mary full of grace
the Lord is with thee Blessed art thou
among women and blessed is the fruit of
thy womb Jesus Holy Mary mother of God
pray for us sinners now and at the hour
of our death Amen Hail Mary full of
grace the Lord is with thee Blessed art
thou among women and blessed is the
fruit of thy womb Jesus Holy Mary mother
of God pray for us sinners now and at
the hour of our death Amen
Hail Mary full of grace the Lord is with
thee Blessed art thou among women and
blessed is the fruit of thy womb Jesus
Holy Mary mother of God pray for us
sinners now and at the hour of our death
Amen Hail Mary full of grace the Lord is
with thee Blessed art thou among women
and blessed is the fruit of thy womb
Jesus Holy Mary mother of God pray for
us sinners now and at the hour of our
death Amen Hail Mary full of grace the
Lord is with thee Blessed art thou among
women and blessed is the fruit of thy
womb Jesus Holy Mary mother of God pray
for us sinners now and at the hour of
our death Amen Glory be to the Father
and to the Son and to the Holy Spirit As
it was in the beginning is now and ever
shall be world without end Amen In the
name of the Father and of the Son and of
the Holy Spirit Amen Thanks all for
joining me and praying with me today I
look forward to continuing this journey
with you again tomorrow Poco Poco All
right God bless y'all